import ImageButBetter from '../../components/ImageButBetter'
import styles from '../globals.module.css'

# Filepicker+

Filepicker but better !


## Features
<ImageButBetter src="/../public/images/Filepicker/Fppwindow.png" alt="Filepicker+ Window" width={2000} height={2000} className={styles.wikiimage}/>

### Previews

- **Image\\Video Previews:** Hovering over an image in the filepicker
  will show a large preview on the top left of the screen. Videos are
  also previewed this way
- **Audio Previews:** Hovering an audio file will play it, you can
  tweak some settings in the module settings (as well as disable this
  feature)
- **3D Previews:** If you have [3D Portraits](../3D/3D-Portraits)
  installed, Filepicker+ will preview 3D glb\\gltf files the same way
  as images.

<ImageButBetter src="/../public/images/Filepicker/Fppapply.png" alt="Apply Button" width={2000} height={2000} className={styles.wikiimage}/>


### Favourites

Filepicker+ will let you add favourite folders to an easly accessible
list.

### Copy Path

Right clicking a file will copy it's full path in case you need it.

#### Apply Changes

Filepicker plus will add a handy Apply button to Objects configuration
sheets, so that you can apply the changes without closing the window if
needed.

## How to use

### Favourites

<ImageButBetter src="/../public/images/Filepicker/Fppaddfav.png" alt="Add Favourite Button" width={2000} height={2000} className={styles.wikiimage}/>

#### Adding a Favourite

To add a Favourite, hover over the folder path on the top of the
Filepicker+ window, an `Add to Favourites` button will appear

<ImageButBetter src="/../public/images/Filepicker/Fppfavlist.png" alt="Favourites List" width={2000} height={2000} className={styles.wikiimage}/>

#### Accessing the Favourites

To access your Favourites list simply click on the star icon, you can
then click any of your favourites folders to navigate to that location

#### Removing a Favourite

To remove an item from the Favourites list, click the `X` button on the
right of the item.

### Customization

You can customize the size of the Filepicker+ as well as what previews
are enabled in the Module settings


## Sidebar Picker
<ImageButBetter src="/../public/images/Filepicker/Sidebarpicker.png" alt="Sidebar Picker" width={2000} height={2000} className={styles.wikiimage}/>

With this feature you can have the Filepicker+ as a sidebar tab, this is
enabled by default and can be disabled in the module settings.

The sidebar picker should have a familiar interface, with the only
difference that the folders are collapsed for extra space. Simply hover
over the folders to expand them.

The sidebar picker lets you do some extra things that the regular
filepicker does not:

### Image as Token

Drag n Dropping an image while on the token layer will create a Token.
The size of the token is determined by the `Size` field (eg, 100 will
make the token 1x1, 200 2x2 etc...)

### Sounds

Dropping a sound while on the sound layer will create it on the scene,
The sound will be created with a Diameter equal to the `Size` (in
units). Eg. With a asset grid size of 100 the sound will be created with
a 50ft radius.

### File Selection

If you have an input field focused (for example the Image Path field in
the Token Appeareance tab) and you click a file in the Sidebar Picker,
that file will be set into the currently focused input.

[Category: Module](Category:_Module 'wikilink') [Category:
Premium](Category:_Premium 'wikilink')
