**Volumetric Templates** *(Levels - Volumetric Templates in releases)*
is a submodule of [Levels](Levels "wikilink"). It allows for compute
Foundry templates in 3D with autotargeting. Automatic mode to
dynamically switch between 2D and 3D depending on the information
provided. Works with all systems and is [MIDI
QOL](https://gitlab.com/tposney/midi-qol) compatible.

## How to use

Volumetric templates will work automatically with normal templates
placement.

The module will automatically figure out if a template needs 3D
Calculations or not if `Dynamic auto swap` is enabled in the module
settings.

By default, circles will be spheres, and cones will be calculated as
cones. Other shapes (boxes, cylinders, hight for rays) will need the
special field to work in 3D. ![Template Configuration
Button](Vtmanual.png "Template Configuration Button")

### Manually configuring a template

![Configure Template Prompt](Vtconfigscreen.png
"Configure Template Prompt") If you need to set the Special field, or
manually set the elevation at which the template is placed you can do so
with the configure template button.

#### Elevation

If you don't set an elevation, the elevation of your currently selected
token will be used

#### Special

This field will tell Volumetric Templates the 3rd dimension of the
template. Spheres and cones don't need it so that's why you don't need
to set it for those.

  - **Circle**: If a Special is set, the circle will be calculated as a
    cylinder with the Special beeing it's height
  - **Cone**: Special will be ignored for cones
  - **Rectangle**: The special field will determine the height (or
    depth) of the Rectangle
  - **Ray**: The special field will determine the height (or depth) of
    the Ray

![The 3rd Dimension shown on the template](Vtspecialtemp.png
"The 3rd Dimension shown on the template") When a special field is set,
it will be shown in the template dimensions.

## Configuration

In the module settings you can find many options to customize Volumetric
Templates, the most important field is the `Volume Percentage`, this
will determine how much a token needs to overlap with a template to
count as a target. Tokens are simplified to Cubes for intersections.
