import Image from 'next/image'
import styles from '../globals.module.css'

# 3D Canvas

3D Canvas is a module for viewing and creating maps in 3D.

Turn your maps into true 3D, load in 3D models, and play your games in
the glorious third dimension. Supports lighting and animated models. If
you don't have 3D models don't worry! 3D canvas will turn your 2D
tokens into stand-up figures in 3D mode.

For people who want a quick and simple guide to get started with 3D
Canvas, read the [3D Canvas Getting StartedGetting
Started](3D_Canvas_Getting_StartedGetting_Started 'wikilink') guide.

If you prefer Video Guides, you can check \[httpsyoutu.beeHzUG64EMJk 3D
Canvas Installation\] and the
\[httpsyoutube.complaylistlist=PLbNUuLLqMgaCpFyHQnTuOGLnljT22XWVp
Playlist\] with the most recent 3D Canvas Video guides

## Tools

`[httpstheripper93.comterrascape Terrascape] A Tool to Sculpt and Paint 3D Terrain in an intuitive way`

## Controls

While loading into a 3D scene, you will see a pop-up of the basic controls. It can be closed or re-opened by selecting the ? button on the left of the Foundry sidebar.

All controls can be rebinded in the configure controls menu.

Actions marked GC are only availeble when Game Camera is enabled

!!!!! REDO CONTROLS TABLES

### Navigator

The 3D navigator is a new way for you and your players to navigate the
3D Scene with ease!

To have the 3D Navigator show a slider with all it's options, you must
define Levels in the Levels UI. The navigator will use those names and
the top range for its clipping planes

To cut to a specific Level, simply move the slider to the Level you
prefer, the slider will automatically snap to the closest Level.

**`Sync`**`If you are a GM, you will see a Sync button on top of the slider, by pressing the button you will sync your current level with all players.`  
**`Camera`**` If you are a Player or GM you will see a Camera button, by pressing it the camera will focus on the currently selected token (the same as ```Shift``` + ```X```). Doing this will automatically set the navigator to the closest level. `  
**` Follow``
 ``Mode `**`Click to toggle. Selecting a token or changing elevation will automatically set the navigator to the closest level while enabled. It is enabled on scene load for players and disabled for GMs by default. You can change this behaviour in the module settings under the misc tab.`

## Scene Setup

### Module Settings

[File3D Canvas Module
Settings.pngthumb](File3D_Canvas_Module_Settings.pngthumb 'wikilink')

#### Enable Screen Space Panning

#### Enable Damping

Adds damping to camera movements. Disabling this option is recommended
for people who experience motion sickness easily.

Press `Shift` + `R` in 3D View to reset the camera and apply
changes.

#### Soft Shadows

Adds softer shadows. Minor performance impact.

#### Shadow Quality

Affects the resolution of shadows. Set to `Disabled` to disable
shadows.

#### Anti-Aliasing

Adds anti-aliasing (reduced pixelation around edges). FXAA will have
very little impact on performance. SMAA will have better results but
with more performance impact.

#### Fog of War Quality

Sets the resolution of fog of war.

#### Resolution Multiplier

Sets the resolution scale.

### Global Settings

[FileGlobal 3D Canvas
Settings.pngthumb](FileGlobal_3D_Canvas_Settings.pngthumb 'wikilink')
Global 3D Canvas settings are accessed from the module settings.

### Canvas

#### Prevent Negative Elevation

Prevents token movement that goes below the game board.

#### Template Style

The style for measured templates. Options are wireframe or solid.

#### Grid Draw Mode

How the grid is drawn. Fast is better in general, but only supports
square grids. Mirror will mirror the foundry grid 11 but will be more
expensive to render.

#### Range Finder

Shows the distance to tokens while hovering over them.

#### Auto Pan

Hooks the 3D Camera panning to the 2D one (i.e. moving a token will have
the camera follow it).

While disabled, you can pan to the selected token with `CRTL` +
`X`.

### Token

#### Stand-ups Face Camera

2D Tokens displayed in a stand-up style will always face the camera.

#### Combat Highlight

Highlight the current combatant.

#### Turn Start Marker

Place a marker where a token started its turn in combat. Visible only to
owners of the token.

#### Hide Target Indicator

Hides target indicator if the token has the base enabled. Targets will
be shown in the base ring highlight.

### Base

#### Base Style

The base style to use. Image will display the chosen image, solid will
draw a miniature-style base.

#### Solid Base Mode

The default solid base mode to use. On top will offset the model to the
top of the base. Merge will not move the original model.

#### Solid Base Color

Color of the solid base. Can be a hex value or a color name (e.g. any
CSS color). Default is `#1C1C1C`.

#### Rotate Base

Rotate the 3D Base to match token rotation.

### Permissions

#### Players Can Ping

Enables the ability to ping location for players (Default `Shift + E`).

#### Players Can Send Camera Position

Enables the ability to send the camera position for players (Default
`Shift + Q`).

### Game Camera

Enable the 'video game'-like camera. Enabled for players by default; GM
is able to toggle it.

#### Min Angle

Minimum angle the camera can be rotated to.

#### Max Angle

Maximum angle the camera can be rotated to.

#### Clipping

Hide objects covering the current target while enabled.

#### Auto Re-Lock

When the game camera is unlocked from its target, automatically relock
it if the target changes.

#### GM Default On

GMs will have Game Camera toggled on when first loading a scene while
enabled.

#### Show Warnings

Display warnings for Game Camera functionality.

### Misc

#### Enable Camera Popout

Pop out the 2D Canvas into a separate window when 3D mode is activated.

#### Navigator Follow Mode

Automatically enables the follow mode for the 3D Navigator on scene
load.

#### Always Show Advanced Settings

Show the advanced settings in configuration menus by default.

#### Prevent Negative Camera

Prevent the camera from pivoting or panning below 0 elevation.

#### Shared Context

Enables shared context for all players. Performance will be improved
while disabled but mini canvas will be disabled.

#### Debug Mode

Shows helpful debug info for troubleshooting.

### Scene Configuration

[File3D Canvas Scene
Settings.pngthumb](File3D_Canvas_Scene_Settings.pngthumb 'wikilink') The
scene configuration provides basic and advanced settings that you can
tweak to make your scene look the way you want. Most scene configuration
options are in the 3D Canvas tab of scene settings.

#### Basics

##### Enable for Players

Allow players to open the 3D View by clicking the 3D Mode button

<i class='fas fa-cube'></i>

##### Enable 3D on Load

When the scene is loaded, automatically enter 3D Mode

##### Enable Grid

Show the grid in the 3D Scene

##### Enable Ruler

Show the ruler when dragging and placing objects

##### Initial view position

Set the default camera position when the scene loads, to properly set
the target for the view, use the ping option (`Shift` + `Q`)
to set the camera before saving the initial view position.

##### Lock Camera Perspective

If you wish to force a certain perspective on this scene, you can lock
it. The camera will no longer rotate, the angle for the lock is the one
of the initial view position.

#### Environment

##### HDRI

If no skybox is selected, the HDRI will be used as the background. if
both skybox and HDRI are selected, the skybox will be used as the
background and the HDRI for lighting and reflections. Having and HDRI is
highly suggested for Metallic and Reflective surfaces to look correct.

##### Skybox Image

Set the skybox (or 3D background) for this scene. The file needs to be
in the same folder of 6 total files, files must contain
**`_ft`**, **`_bk`**, **`_up`**, **`_dn`**,
**`_rt`**, or **`_lf`** in their name.

##### Enable Bloom

Toggles bloom effects for the scene.

#### Filter

Adds filter effects to the scene. Available filters are

`Greyscale`  
`Sepia`  
`Invert`  
`Contrast`  
`Brightness`  
`Hue`  
`Saturation`  
`Custom`

Custom will create an input box under filter intensity. You can create
your custom filter with CSS Filters and the syntax will be the same. See
the \[httpsdeveloper.mozilla.orgen-USdocsWebCSSfilter MDN page\] on CSS
Filter for more information.

#### Particles

##### Particle Preset

Set the weather or effect for the scene, you can have up of 2 effects at
the same time and one of them can be custom (Particle Preset 2 has the
custom option).

#### Visibility

##### Render Walls

Whether or not to display the 2d Canvas Walls in the 3D Mode.

##### Render Doors

Whether or not to display walls marked as doors.

##### Render Tiles

Whether or not to display tiles.

##### Render Scene Lights

Whether or not to display lights.

##### Mirror Levels Tile Visibility

If enabled 3D Canvas will mirror the Levels tiles visibility. This
option is required if you want to make a multilevel 3D Map where floors
above tokens disappear automatically for easier navigation.

##### Use 3D Geometry for sight calculations

Instead of mirroring the 2D Canvas token visibility, use the 3D Geometry
of the scene. This means that if you simply load a 3D Model into the
scene, it's geometry will be used to block token visibility, meaning you
do not need to wall the scene and it will just work. This setting also
applies to [LevelsVolumetric TemplatesVolumetric
Templates](Levels#Volumetric_TemplatesVolumetric_Templates 'wikilink')
Auto Targeting and 3D Cover Calculations.

## Tiles

### 2D Tiles

Tiles are placed at the bottom elevation via the
[Levels](Levels 'wikilink') module. Background tiles are rendered but
it's highly suggested to instead use a single background image or
popping and flickering issues may occur.

\[httpsgithub.comflamewave000dragonflagon-arch DF Architect\] has an
option to merge all your background tiles and background image into a
single image.

### 3D Tiles

[File3D Tile Menu.pngthumb](File3D_Tile_Menu.pngthumb 'wikilink') For
props or entire 3D Maps, use 3D Tiles!

You can add metadata to your 3D Models in a way that 3D Canvas will be
able to read it and automatically make parts of your Mesh Doors or set
collisionsight blocking on submeshes separately.

#### Placing 3D Tiles

To place a 3D Tile, open the filepicker while in 3D Mode and in the
Tiles Layer. The file picker will now show 3D Files instead of 2D
Images. Drag and drop a file from the filepicker to the scene to create
a 3D Tile, 3D Canvas will give your tile a placeholder 2D Image as well,
required for Levels to adjust visibility when needed and to make it
clear that you have 3D Tiles on the map, you can change this placeholder
image but it's not suggested to leave it Blank.

If you wish to see 3D Models previews in the file picker, you will need
the [Filepicker+](Filepicker+ 'wikilink') and [3D
Portraits](3D_Portraits 'wikilink') modules.

#### Tile Editor

Once a Tile is on the scene you can select it and use the quick tile
editor controls to manipulate the tile. All the shortcuts are documented
in the [3D
CanvasControlscontrols](3D_Canvas#Controlscontrols 'wikilink').

### Tile Configuration

The 3D Tab contains all the settings to manipulate the tile manually
through numbers, although most of these settings are self explanatory,
we will focus on some that could be confusing

#### Block SightMovement

This option tells 3D Canvas if the tile should be included in collision
andor vision calculations.

For example, if one of your tiles represents water, you would need to
disable both options.

#### Door Options

These options behave the same as core foundry. Tile Doors also do a
range check against players so they will need to be no more than 1
square away from the door to be able to open it.

#### Fill Type

This will change how the tile is displayed

**`Single`**`Will stretch the 3D Model to fill the box defined by the tile.`  
**`Repeat`**` Will make multiple copies of this tile, tiling it inside the tile bounds. This option is considerably more performant than having multiple copies of a ```Single``` fill tile. `

#### Gap

This option will set the Gap between the repeated 3D Models. Will only
work with Repeat Fill Type

#### Randomization Options

All this options will only affect the Repeat Fill Type

#### Random Seed

The seed used to generate the randomization, you can change this seed to
some arbitrary characters if you want to re randomize the tile.

#### Supported Properties

class=wikitable sortable - !Property Name !Type !Value - collision
Integer 01 - sight Integer 01 - isDoor Integer 012 - doorId String Any
Unique Name - ds Integer 012

## 3D Entities

### Lights

#### Creating Lights

[FileCreating Lights
Video.webmthumb](FileCreating_Lights_Video.webmthumb 'wikilink') To
create a light, simply go to the light layer and drag to create a light,
all the standard foundry interactions are the same.

#### Particle Effects

You can enable Particle Effect emission on Lights in the 3D Tab, if you
want more information on what every option does, check the Particle
Effects wiki page!

### Sun

The sun's position and lighting is determined by the time of day.

#### Limitations

3D Lights will not be blocked by walls or cast shadows because of a
WebGL limitation. It's also incredibly expensive on performance.

You can enable Shadow CastingWall Blocking in the 3D Tab for specific
lights, but it's highly suggested to not use more than 2-3 lights per
scene while enabled. Enabling this option on a large number of lights
will crash the scene.

If the scene crashes because of the settings, and you are not able to
access the 3D or 2D Scene, disable 3D Canvas (or launch your world in
safe mode) and delete the shadow casting lights.

### Fog of War

#### Shared Context

Shared Context is a global setting. If enabled, it allows for fog of war
to be rendered in real-time with better performance and better quality.
It is **not recommended** to be disabled.

#### Fog Exploration

If you have both **Token Vision** and **Fog Exploration** enabled in the
scene settings, 3D Canvas will mirror the 2D Canvas fog. This means that
fog bounds are solely determined by walls in the scene.

If you have **Token Vision** enabled but **Fog Exploration** disabled,
the whole scene will be revealed but walls and geometry (if set in the
scene settings) will prevent tokens from seeing each other if blocked by
obstacles.

#### Limitations

**Fog is not 3D!** Fog exploration is 2 dimensional. Exploring any
space will explore the full vertical space of that location. There are
no current plans for 'true' 3D fog exploration because of performance
costs.

#### Manual Fog of War

If you wish to have some semblance of a 3D Fog, you can use Box Measure
templates to create Fog of War boxes. It will mimic the use a piece of
paper to cover the map table experience—but in 3D.

Simply place a Box Measured Template, open it's configuration, and
enable **Is Fog of War Box**

Players will see this box as solid black. GMs will see it semi
transparent. Moving the camera inside the box will obscure the view. The
GM can move or remove these boxes during the exploration.

### Measured Templates

#### Creating a Measured Template

To create a Measured Template simply drag while in the Template
Controls, to see all the Keyboard and Mouse controls for template
placement, check the Controls Wiki Page

#### Making a Cylinder

Since this is not obvious, to create a cylinder, head over to the Token
Controls <i class="fas fa-user"></i> and click the **Set Elevation for next placed
Template** button <i class="fas fa-sort"></i>. In the **Special** field, set the
height of the cylinder (in grid units). Then place a circle template.

## Special Effects

### Token Animations

#### Start an Animation with the UI

[FileToken HUD for Token Animations.pngthumb183x183px](FileToken_HUD_for_Token_Animations.pngthumb183x183px 'wikilink')
You can access Token Animations by right clicking your token to open the
Token Hud. You will see a Magic Wand icon on the right.

Click it to open the available animations. Clicking on an animation will
play the animation for all clients. Some animations might not work if
the token is _Prone_ or _Defeated_.

#### Start an Animation with Macros

To play an animation with a macro, first create a script macro, then use
the following commands to play your desired animation. syntaxhighlight
lang=javascriptgame.Levels3DPreview.playTokenAnimation(tokens,
animationId, options)syntaxhighlight

##### Arguments

`tokens`

This parameter can be a single token object, an array of token objects,
a single token ID or an array of token IDs, the animation will play on
all these targets.

`animationId`

The identifier for the animation, you can find all the animation IDs by
typing syntaxhighlight
lang=javascriptgame.Levels3DPreview.CONFIG.tokenAnimationssyntaxhighlight
in the console and hitting Enter.

`options`

This argument is optional, an object containing additional parameters.

syntaxhighlight lang=js

repeats 1, How many times you want the animation to play

resetTime milliseconds, Force the time that the animation takes to reset
to the original position once it ends

syntaxhighlight

##### Example Macro

This macro will play the Twirl animation, 3 Times, on all Selected
Tokens.

syntaxhighlight
lang=javascriptgame.Levels3DPreview.playTokenAnimation(canvas.tokens.controlled,
twirl, repeats 3)syntaxhighlight

### Particle System

3D Canvas includes a particle system meant for spell effects, the system
is highly customizable but also very simple to use for basic
projectiles.

You can also set the **Weather** of your 3D Scene in the 3D Tab of the
scene configuration under the Particles Section.

#### Without Scripts

If you don't want to dig into the scripting aspect, the module
\[httpsfoundryvtt.compackagesautoanimations Automated Animations\]
provides a graphical interface to setup 3D Canvas Particle Effects.
[FileAA
3D.pngcenterthumb891x891px](FileAA_3D.pngcenterthumb891x891px 'wikilink')

#### Creating an Effect

First create a `Script Macro`, then to start creating your effect
simply callsyntaxhighlight lang=javascript new Particle3D(type)
syntaxhighlight`type` is the type of particle effect, at the
moment the options are class=wikitable sortable +Options !Effect
!type !type (short) - Projectile projectile p - Sprite sprite s - Ray
ray r - Explosion explosion e If no type is provided the default is
`p`

Note that Sprite also accepts 3D Models as particles!

Now you can start chaining properties, similar to how Sequencer works.
Every time you call a `.method()` on a `Particle3D` it will
always return the `Particle3D` object, allowing for chaining. The
only exception is the `.start()` method that will return the ID if
the `Particle3D` First we must provide an origin and a
destination.syntaxhighlight lang=python new Particle3D(type)

`.from(origin)`  
`.to(destination)`

syntaxhighlight`.from()` & `.to()`

These two methods are required on every effects, each one can take a
single `Token` or an array of `Tokens` or a single
`Position` or an array of them. Non `Token` placeables are
also supported. A `Position` is defined by \{ x0, y0, z0 \}
where `z` is in elevation units. `Explosion` effects are the
exception as they do not require a `.from()`

Note You can omit both `.from()` and `.to()` when creating
an effect inside `.onEnd()`. In that case the `.to()` will
be set as the target of that particular effect (useful for exploding
bolts for example)

Let's set up our origin as the selected token and the destination as our
targets.syntaxhighlight lang=javascript new Particle3D(type)

`.from(token)`  
`.to(Array.from(game.user.targets))`

syntaxhighlightAt this point we can `.start()` our
`Particle3D` to play the effect and the default settings will be
used (it will look like a firebolt).syntaxhighlight lang=javascript new
Particle3D(type)

`.from(token)`  
`.to(Array.from(game.user.targets))`

.start()

syntaxhighlight`.start()`

The `.start()` method takes no arguments and will simply start the
effect. After using this method you should **NOT** interact with the
`Particle3D` anymore. Use the returned ID instead if you wish to
stop the effect, see the `Stopping an Effect` section below. If
you wish you can call `.start(false)` to only play the effect
locally.

##### Stopping an effect

When creating an effect, the effect will return it's id. You can use
this Id later to stop the effect. You can also execute
`Particle3D.stop(all)` to stop all effects. If you used the
`.name()` property on effect creation you can also
`.stop(name)` to stop all effects with that name.

##### Try it yourself\

These are several examples showcasing the `Particle3D` system that
are a good starting point for understanding the system and creating your
own custom effects.

Create new `Script Macros` in your game with the ``` blocks [3D Canvas Animation Macros on this page](3D_Canvas_Animation_Macroson_this_page 'wikilink') to try them out
in 3D Canvas and see the different effects. You can adjust the variables
to see how those influence the effects.

These macros are also all available to import directly in the `3D
Canvas Particle Effects` macro compendium! Simply select a token,
target some tokens and run the macros, you will see them in action!

#### Particles Properties & Behaviours

We can now add properties to the effect in any order to alter it's
appearance

`.alpha(start,end)`

This property requires start and end to be numbers between 0 and 1 -
sets the starting and ending opacity of particles

`.arc(integer)`

This property takes an integer and indicates how many times the
projectile will curve before reaching its destination. Default is 0.

`.color(start,end)`

This will determine the starting and ending color of the effect, only
start can be provided. start and end can also be arrays of colors (eg
`.color(\[color1,color2\],\[color3,color4\])`.

If an array of colors is provided for start andor end, the system will
pick one of those colors randomly as the startingending color—it will
NOT create a multicolor gradient.

The colors can be in any format, HEX is recommended but you can use any
CSS compatible color—even using `red` will work.

`.delay(milliseconds)`

If `.repeat()` is set, this will be the delay between each repeat.

`.duration(milliseconds)`

Duration in milliseconds of the effect, valid only for ray. Default is
300 milliseconds

`.emitterSize(number)`

Radius of the area of emission in grid squares (so 1 would be 1 grid
square), the larger the number the more spread out the particles will be
in their starting point. Default is 0

`.force(number)`

If using an explosion, set the force of the explosion, default is 15.
This will determine the force with which the particles are propelled
from the origin. Higher numbers will result in faster particles.

`.gravity(number)`

Gravity affecting the particles - 1 is Earth gravity. Higher numbers
means particles will travel down faster depending on their mass.
Negative gravity is also possible if you want particles to go up
instead.

`.life(min, max)`

Range in milliseconds of the lifetime of a particle, bigger numbers will
equal to longer trails. default (100,500). A single value is also
accepted.

`.mass(number)`

The Mass of the particle, this will affect how much gravity pulls down
the particle. Default is 100.

`.miss()`

If added to the effect, it will miss the target. You can also call
`.miss(Boolean)` if you prefer.

`.name(string)`

You can give a name to an effect, if you do so, you can call the
`.stop()` method using this name and all effects with this name
will be stopped.

`.onEnd(particle3D)`

You can pass another `particle3D` or an array of
`particle3d` to the `.onEnd` method, if you do so, these
effects will be played when the main effect ends, you can nest this how
many times you want but DO NOT call the `.start()` method on
`Particle3D` inside the `.onEnd()` method. Does not trigger
when the effect is terminated by `.stop()`

`.playAnimation(animationData)`

Play a 3D Animation, the animation data is formatted as follows.

`from {  The from property specifies which animation should be played on the origin of the particle effect (usually the caster or attacker)`  
`id twirl,  The id of the animation to play`  
`start true, If the animation should be played on start of the effect`  
`end false,  If the animation should be played when the effect ends (like a projectile reaching it's target)`  
`},`  
`to {  The from property specifies which animation should be played on the origin of the particle effect (usually the caster or attacker)`  
`id shake,`  
`start true,`  
`end false,`  
`},`

syntaxhighlight`.push(dx,dy,dz)`

The pushing force affecting the particles, this is a method generally
used internally for fixed emitters - it will create an effect on the
particles as if a force was pushing them in a specific direction.
Default is (0,0,0).

`.rate(particles,milliseconds)`

The Rate of the emitter, where particles is the amount of particles in
the system and milliseconds is how often the system creates a particle.
Default (12, 16)

`.repeat(integer)`

The number of times to repeat the effect

`.rotation(x,y,z)`

Rotation in degrees of the particle, only used if using a 3D Model as
particle

`.up(x,y,z)`

A unit vector (eg `.up(1,0,1)` ) representing the direction of the
tip of the model (eg, an arrow or a dagger), only used if using a 3D
Model as particle

`.rotateTowards()`

Instead of a projectile, do a swinging motion, only used if using a 3D
Model as particle

`.scale(min,max)`

The starting and ending size in in grid squares of a single particle.
Default is (0.8,0)

`.speed(number)`

The speed of the projectile. Default is 10.

`.sprite(pathToFile)`

The path to the image to be used as particle. Default is
`moduleslevels-3d-previewassetsparticlesemberssmall.png` you can
find many particles in that same folder.

`.startAfter(milliseconds)`

Delay the start of the effect by the specified milliseconds

## Files

### Supported File Formats

#### 3D File Formats

You can use **`GLB`**, **`GLTF`** and **`FBX`** files,
other formats can be easily converted, Blender is suggested to perform
this operation.

#### 2D File Formats

3D Canvas supports all the file formats supported by Foundry, including
animated **`webm`** files. Due to how 3D Canvas handles
transparency, semi-transparent images might be completely cut of by the
processing.

While the weather system supports animated file formats, the particle
effect system does not.

##### Animated Images

While 3D Canvas supports animated webm, it's possible that your browser,
or some browser extension blocks video autoplay. Because the 3D Library
loads animated images differently than 2D it might bump into that block,
if they don't work for you, try to switch browser or disable extensions.

### PBR Materials

#### Material Browser

If you installed the 3D Canvas Mapmaking Pack, you will have access to
more than 1000 Materials and the Material Browser.

To access the material browser simply click the circular icon left of
the Filepicker+ icon (<i class="fas fa-file-import"></i>). [FileMaterial Browser
Icon.pngnonethumb958x958px](FileMaterial_Browser_Icon.pngnonethumb958x958px 'wikilink')
You will then be welcomed by the material browser. To apply the material
simply click on the desired one. Keep in mind that if you intend to use
these materials on tokens, you need to select PBR in the material
option.

#### Loading a PBR Material

[FileMaterial
Browser.pngthumb](FileMaterial_Browser.pngthumb 'wikilink') Tokens,
walls, tiles and the scene table support PBR Materials. To load a pbr
material you need a specific file naming stuctures. The files must be
named as follows and be all in the same folder.

Exampleblockquote`Wood077_1K_AmbientOcclusion.jpg`

`Wood077_1K_Color.jpg`

`Wood077_1K_Emissive.jpg`

`Wood077_1K_Metalness.jpg`

`Wood077_1K_NormalGL.jpg`

`Wood077_1K_Roughness.jpg`blockquoteAs you can see all the files
share a root name then keywords to differentiate the different textures.
You can find materials already set up this way here AmbientCG.

You need to select one of the files in the image field to use them in 3D
Canvas. **For the full material to be loaded you can pick any of the
images but _not_ color, otherwise only the color texture will be used.**

For walls you can load the image in it's texture field, same for tokens,
tiles and the scene table. Tokens also require that the material is set
to PBR.

Displacement maps are not supported due to performance and optimization.

## Other

### Resources

#### Content Creators

If you wish to purchase premade content for 3D Canvas, some content
creators have it available on their Patreons

**` [https://www.patreon.com/baileywiki``
 ``Baileywiki] `**`has a vast collection of 3D Prefabs, Heightmaps, and Maps with heavy use of built in tools from the Mapmaking Pack.`  
**` [https://www.patreon.com/Swift``   ``Swift``
 ``Cartography] `**`has 3D Models of complete maps and Props.`

#### 3D Canvas Compendium

The \[httpsgithub.comtheripper93canvas3dcompendium compendium\] includes
premade maps and tokens and a vast collection of 3D tiles, the assets
included are continuously updated.

#### Heroforge

By using the [3D Portraits](3D_Portraits 'wikilink') module, you can
import your purchased 3D minis from \[httpswww.heroforge.com Hero
Forge\]. Hero Forge also offers a $15 a month subscription service that
lets you use all the pro customization and includes 5 minis purchases
per month.

#### 3D Models

`[httpsquaternius.comindex.html Quaternius] has a lot of great models, require conversion to gltf nowikihttpsquaternius.comindex.htmlnowiki`  
`[httpswww.shapeways.comshopsdmworkshop Shapeways] has free miniatures (account required). Only the 3D Printing models are paid materials.`  
`[httpsyoutu.be2UwQ5v1uQy0 How to convert STLs]`

#### HDRIs

`[httpspolyhaven.comhdris Polyhaven]`  
`[httpswww.ihdri.comhdri-skies-outdoor iHDRI]`  
`[httpshdrmaps.com HDRMaps]`  
`[httpslocationtextures.companoramas Location Textures]`

#### Skyboxes

`[httpsopengameart.orgcontentskiingpenguins-skybox-pack Skyboxes by Zachery “skiingpenguins” Slocum]`

#### HDRI

`[httpspolyhaven.comhdris Polyhaven]`  
`[httpswww.ihdri.comhdri-skies-outdoor iHDRI]`  
`[httpshdrmaps.com HDRMaps]`  
`[httpslocationtextures.companoramas Location Textures]`

#### Utility

`[httpsproducts.aspose.app3dconversionfbx-to-gltf Model Converter]`  
`[httpsthreejs.orgeditor Model Editor]`

#### Other

`[httpssketchfab.com Sketchfab] has tons of free 3D assets that you can download already in the correct format`

### Modules

#### Required Modules

The following modules are all required for 3D Canvas to function, you
must install them or you will not be able to enable 3D Canvas

`[httpsfoundryvtt.compackageslib-wrapper Lib Wrapper] Library module for multi module interaction`  
`[httpsfoundryvtt.compackagessocketlib Socketlib] Library module for sending commands between clients`  
[` Wall``   ``Height `](Wall_Height 'wikilink')`To handle wall size`  
[` Better``
 ``Roofs `](Better_Roofs 'wikilink')`For tile logic and for Levels to function`  
[`Levels`](Levels 'wikilink')`To handle 3D vision and other 3D logic`

#### Supported Modules

Modules that are [Levels](Levels 'wikilink') compatible will likely be
compatible with 3D Canvas as well. There are a few modules that have
specific 3D Canvas integration.

`[httpsgithub.comironmonk88monks-active-tiles Monk's Active Tile Triggers] 3D Canvas supports MATT click and double click events on tiles.`

#### Recommended Modules

The following modules are not strictly required but all provide
enhancements to the 3D Experience

[httpsgithub.comtheripper93canvas3dcompendium 3D Canvas Compendium] Highly Recommended. Contains assets that you can use in 3D Canvas, such as 3D Tiles, Skyboxes, HDRIs and Miniatures.  
[httpsgithub.comtheripper93canvas3dtokencompendium 3D Canvas Token Collection] Highly Recommended.  A collection with 1000+ Hero tokens and every DnD5e creature and more.  
[ 3D Portraits ](3D_Portraits 'wikilink')With this module you can have 3D Portraits on your sheets, Import HeroForge miniatures both in portraits and as tokens on the board and enable 3D Models previews in the filepicker (if you have[Filepicker+](Filepicker+ 'wikilink')).  
[ Levels#Automatic Cover CalculatorLevels - Automatic Cover Calculator ](Levels#Automatic_Cover_CalculatorLevels_-_Automatic_Cover_Calculator 'wikilink')With this module you will be able to calculate cover in 3D, the module is customizable and compatible with all systems.  
[ Levels#Volumetric TemplatesLevels - Volumetric Templates ](Levels#Volumetric_TemplatesLevels_-_Volumetric_Templates 'wikilink')This module will automatically target in 3D when you place a template (AoE) calculating spheres, cones etc...  
[httpsgithub.com Varriountfvtt-autorotate Auto-Rotate] This module will automatically set the rotation of tokens when moving or targeting, this will reflect in 3D and give your minis the correct orientation.  
[httpsgithub.comotigonautomated-jb2a-animations Automated Animations] Set up Special Effects on item use without the need to fiddle with macros.  
[httpsgithub.commanuelVofoundryvtt-drag-rulertreemaster Drag Ruler] Change the 3D Ruler color based on how much movement that specific token has.  
[Splatter](Splatter 'wikilink')Adds special effects (e.g. blood splatters) when a token is damaged.

#### Incompatible Modules

There are no known modules that will cause issues.

However, modules that create visual effects in 2D will likely not carry
over effects to 3D. Other types of modules will likely be compatible
with 3D Canvas.

### Tutorials

#### [3D Canvas Getting StartedGetting Started](3D_Canvas_Getting_StartedGetting_Started 'wikilink')

A page for new users to quickly get started with 3D Canvas.

#### General Information

theripper93 has created a
\[httpswww.youtube.complaylistlist=PLduZW\_yiWVamLWiXPW4KjiduTXhU5z8zV
playlist\] of 3D Canvas tutorials. Keep in mind that some may be
outdated, but the general concepts will likely apply for current or
future versions of 3D Canvas.

#### Converting a Spherical HDRI map to a Cube Map for 3D Canvas

_A guide by `@simulacrum`_

Go to httpsmatheowis.github.ioHDRI-to-CubeMap  
 Upload you image. It doesn't take EXR so you'll have to convert those to HDRI's, PNG or JPEG.  
Once it's uploaded it will appear in the 3D view. You can now see how the Cube map will look.  
It's possible to move the image by dragging on it but**don't**or it won't line up with your HDRI.  
Adjust the Exposure. Make it darker.  
The HDRI lights the cube map so you will have to compensate for this, either now or in your image editor later.  
 Choose Export and choose the bottom option export as PNG choosing the size you want for the individual sides  
2k is normally enough but you can try 4k if your machine can handle it or 1k if not  
 Click Process  
 Once it's finished, download them  
The names of the files don't match up with 3D Canvas so use a file renamer to swap them.  
Remember that your prefix must match on every file (i.e. **name_bk** , **name_ft** , etc.)  
All the images will need to be flipped horizontally.  
You will also have to rotate the **\_up** and **\_dn** images clockwise 90 degrees.  
Altering the images in an editor like Photoshop or Gimp is recommended.  
Save all of the files.  
You can get the file size down by changing them to  JPEG  
Don't use much, if any, compression as it shows.  
webp  looks very compressed so I don't use it.  
That's it. You now have an 8bit cube map that matches you 32 bit HDRI that will be a much smaller file size that the equivalent HDRI. Now you can use a 1k hdri to give you the lighting and reflections and use the 8bit Cube Map as the background image.

#### [TownscaperImporting Maps from Townscaper by Chryron\#3457](TownscaperImporting_Maps_from_Townscaper_by_Chryron#3457 'wikilink')

#### Special Mentions

- **@dev7355608** for tons of help and suggestions on many parts of the 3D Canvas dzvelopement
- **@Otigon#2010** for the wonderful Automated Animations integration ([httpswww.patreon.comotigon Patreon])
- **@arcanist#4317** for testing and tips ([https://www.patreon.com/arcanistzed Patreon])`
