Automatically check for my premium modules updates and receive
notifications for Critical Updates on my Free Modules and new Free and
Premium Releases.

Note that new releases are rare and you won't get notified about premium
releases more than 1 time per month (most likely less) You can check out
my website if you want to view my premium modules offering -
https://theripper93.com/

## What is it for?

If you are not a patreon supporter you get notified by module updates
that can potentially save your impending game from disaster (because of
my mistakes ehm..) since the module will notify immediately when you
enter your foundry world. If you are a patreon supporter it will save
you the effort of having to check the discord for new updates as well\!
![The Module Hub allerting you of a critical update](Phnotif.png
"The Module Hub allerting you of a critical update")

## Notifications

Receive critical notifications on my free and paid modules and new
Premium Releases.

## Downloading

![The Module Hub Settings](Phsettings.png "The Module Hub Settings")
Whenever an update for a premium module is detected you will be notified
about it and prompted with a download link that will bring you to the
Patreon post.

## Options

By default the module will check on startup and will also check for
modules that are installed but not enabled, you can change these options
in the module settings ![Documentation Button](Hubdocs.png
"Documentation Button")

## Documentation

The Hub will also add a button next to the module title in the configure
settings menu to quickly access the documentation\!

[Category: Module](Category:_Module "wikilink") [Category:
Free](Category:_Free "wikilink")
