Add blood and gore to your games

# V10 Data Path update

![Token Bleeding from a hit](Splatteronhit.png
"Token Bleeding from a hit") When updating to V10 you will probably need
to update your datapaths, this basically means removing any `data` from
the path, for example for dnd5e it would be `attributes.hp.value` as you
can see the `data.` is no longer in the path.

## ATTENTION\!

On some systems the `Creature Type` and `Custom Creature Type` options
might cause Splatter to not work correctly, simply go into the module
settings for Splatter and empty both those settings leaving them blank.
![Creature Type Blood Color Macro](Splatterbloodsheet.png
"Creature Type Blood Color Macro")

## CONFIGURATIONS

If you manually added the data paths for your System to splatter, please
send in a PR for
[config.js](https://github.com/theripper93/Splatter/blob/main/scripts/config.js)

For information on how to configure Splatter for your system please read
[this](https://github.com/theripper93/Splatter/blob/main/CONFIGURATIONS.MD)

You are also free to send in PRs with configurations for missing
systems\!

## Add blood and gore to your games

Give that extra touch to your game, compatible with most game systems
(minor configuration required)

### Blood on hit

The bigger the hit, the more the blood. Configure manual blood scale,
violence level, and blood trails

### Blood by creature type

Set up a configuration for blood color and creature type, by default one
for dnd5e is included ![Customize Blood Color per
token](Splattertokenblood.png "Customize Blood Color per token") ![Data
Path settings](Splatterdatapath.png "Data Path settings")

### Per Token Blood color

Set the blood color differently for each token, if you want a token to
not bleed, you can set the color to transparent\!

### Custom Data Path

Set the data path of relevant data to adjust Splatter for your game
system

### 3D Canvas Integration

If you use 3D Canvas, Splatter will make tokens bleed also in 3D\!

## Manually Configuring Splatter for your System

Some systems are supported out of the box, others will require manual
configuration of the data paths, follow these instructions to configure
splatter for your system.

  - Place a Token on a scene, any scene and any token will do
  - Select the token
  - Open the Console using the F12 Key
  - On the Top Tabs, make sure you are in the Console Tab
  - In the console, type `_token.actor.system` and press Enter
  - You will see some data displayed, click the Expand Arrow to see all
    the data
  - Browse the data tree using the Expand arrows to locate the data path
    of your Current\\Max hp.
  - Once you have located the data path, right click on the name of the
    property and click "Copy Property Path"
  - Paste it in the Splatter Module settings appropriate field.

## NOTICE: FEATURE REQUESTS

I know that this implementation doesen't have all the features BnG had
BUT i feel like it has enough customization for most people. Because the
point of this module is to keep it streamlined to avoid making it
impossible to mantain no feature requests will be implemented. Unless is
something that all the users of this module would greatly benfit from,
please refrain from asking. Thanks for your understanding :)

## FAQ

Blood and guts exists, why make a new one?: Blood and guts was a massive
project and while it was amazing, with a lot of code comes a lot of
issues and it's extremely difficult to mantain and fix. This
implementation is simpler and more streamlined, and while it has less
features, it will be much easier to mantain or adopt if it ever gets
abandoned

## Licensing

The included Splatter font was created by Codin Repsh

Original concept by edzillion

[Category: Module](Category:_Module "wikilink") [Category:
Free](Category:_Free "wikilink")
